1. Protocols & Topologies

. Networking - process of interacting with others to exchange information.

. Computer networking - computers interacting with each other to exchange data.

. Common language and rules are used  so computers can interact.

. Topologies - Layout of connections between computers

. Every topology has different advantages and dis advantages.

. Redundancy is important.

. Types - star, bus, ring, mesh.

. Ring Network(token ring network) - computers are connected to a closed 
loop cable.

. RN - Tokens  help send data along the ring, once data reaches destination
token is stripped of the data and continues along the ring and stands by
for another device to attach data to it

. RN - No terminating ends.

. RN - computers and devices function as repeaters.

. RN - Tokens are required to send data.

. Bus Each end of trunk must be terminated to prevent signal from rebounding back
through cable.

. Mesh Networks - Full or partial
All or most compurters are connected to eachother. Expensive network.
High redundancy. Many Routes.

. MN - partial mesh =  good redundancy, not as expensive.
. Star Network - Most common type of topology. Connected to central hub/switch.
Good amount of redundancy.

*  Network+ Basics/Concepts * - OSI vs. TCP/IP Model, IP Class Ranges, Subnets and CIDR notation,
Network communication, Common ports =  DNS, DHCP, Telnet, SSH, HTTPS.

. OSI Model = Operating System Interconnection model - can give a basic visual to
help with design and troubleshooting issues.

. OSIm - Conceptual framework that describes the communication 
 functions of a telecommunications or computing  networking system.

. OSIm - 7 Layers:

		7. Application - Network Process to Application - Data
		
		6. Presentation - Data Representation & Encryption - Data

		5. Session - Inter-Host Communication - Data

		4. Transport - End-to-End Connections and reliability - Segments

		3. Network - Path determination & IP - Packets

		2. Data Link - MAC & LLC (Physical Addressing) - Frames

		1. Physical -  media, signal, binary transmission - Bits


. TCP/IP Model - Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol

. TCP/IPm - Concise version of OSIm, containing 4 layers.

. TCP/IPm 4 Layers: 

		4. Application = App, Presentation, session - Data

		3. Transport = Transport - Segment
	
		2. Internet = Network - Packets
		
		1. Network Interface = Data Link +  Physical - Bits


. TCP/IPm - Differs from OSI

. TCP/IPm - Combines several layers

. TCP/IPm - Much more common today 

. IP Addressing = Internet Protocol address

. IP Addressing - every device on a network has an IP address

. Two types of current versions of IP addressing

. IPv4 & IPv6 

. IP addressing can be set statically or dynamically using DHCP

. IP addressing can be broken into a network address and host address.

. IP address example: 192.168.0.11/24


. IPv4 - Public and private addressing 

. Private Address Classes

	. A - 10.0.0.0 - 10.255.255.255

	. B - 172.16.0.0 - 17.31.255.255

	. C - 192.168.0.0 - 192.168.255.255

. IPv4 uses 32 bit address

. IPv4 is running out of IP addresses.

. IPv6 - created to address the shortage of IPv4 addresses.

. IPv6 - Eight groups of hexadecimal numbers

. IPv6 - Groups of all 0s can be omitted to save space

. Example: 2001:cdba:0000:0000:0000:0000:3257:9652

can also be referred to as 2001:cdba:3257:9652


Network Communication

. Unicast - one to one communication; device to device

. Broadcast - one to many

. Multicast - one device to many certain devices - uses igmp internet group
management protocol to identify groups and group members.


Common Ports and protocols

. 0 - 65535 - 0 to 1023 well known ports

. FTP - 20, 21; file transfer protocol

. SSH - 22; secure shell

. Telnet - 23; remote login  service unencrypted

. SMTP  -25; simple mail transfer protocol

. DNS - 53; Domains Name System

. HTTP - 80; hyper text transfer protocol

. HHTPS - 443; secure http

. NTP - 123; network time protocol

. SNMP - 161; simple network management protocol

. RDP - 3389; remote desktop protocol


* Network Troubleshooting method * 

. Identify problem

. Gather information

. Establish theory of cause

. Test the theory

. Determine plan of action to resolve problem

. implement plan

. verify system functionality

. Document


 * Troubleshooting Tools *

. Ping

. Traceroute/tracert

. NSLookup and Dig

. ipconfig or ifconfig

. Netstat

. Route


* Network Devices * 

>  Router - Operates at layer 3 of the OSI model

. connects seperate networks

. Learn routes

. forward packages



> Switch - operate at layer 2 of OSI model

. Connects man devices to a LAN

. Uses frames instead of packets

. Forwards based on MAC addresses


> Firewalls

. Typically work at layers 3 - 4 but can operate up to the application layer
as well.

. Seperate internal networks from the internet

. work based on rules

. many types of firewalls.

. NGF - next generation firewalls


> NIDS - Network Intrusion Detetction System

. Monitors traffic at selected points of network in real time

. Typically have one server and several sensors

. Detected and alert on potentially malicious traffic


> Testing Network Connectivity


 ipconfig 

. Internet protocol configuration (windows)

. view network configuration

. release and renew DHCP address; Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol 


 ping 

. Verifies connectivity to another computer

. Uses TCP/IP protocol

. Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) echo requests

 
 tracert 

. Trace Route

. Determine route to destination

. Uses ICMP packets

. Calculates Time-to-live (TTL)


telnet 

. Protocol to interact with remote computers

. Used to test TCP connections

. Combine host name/IP address and port


 
